README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
  <img src="https://www.linode.com/media/images/logos/diagonal/light/linode-logo_diagonal_light_medium.png" width="200" />
  <br />
  Linode UI
</h1>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://travis-ci.org/linode/manager"><img src="https://travis-ci.org/linode/manager.svg?branch=master" alt="Build status" /></a>
  <a href="https://coveralls.io/github/linode/manager?branch=master"><img src="https://coveralls.io/repos/github/linode/manager/badge.svg?branch=master" alt="Code coverage" /></a>
  <a href="https://lerna.js.org/" alt="maintained with lerna"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/maintained%20with-lerna-cc00ff.svg" /></a>
</p>

This repository is the home for all things related to front-end development at Linode.

## Running Projects Within the Repository

To get started running Linode UI projects locally, please [see the _Getting Started_ documentation.](GETTING_STARTED.md)

## Contributing

If you already have your development environment set up, please read the [contributing guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) to get help in making your first PR.

Additionally, you can read our [code conventions](./CODE_CONVENTIONS.md) and [Cloud Manager testing conventions](./TESTING.md) docs for instructions on how write code inline with what we expect.

## Reaching Out

You can submit feedback in two ways

1. Submit feedback to feedback@linode.com
2. Create a GitHub Issue

Both are monitored by the developers and product owners and we make a point to respond and take
action upon feedback.

## License

All code located in this repository is distributed under the terms of the [BSD 3-clause
license](LICENSE). The assets are
not licensed for any purpose without prior written approval from Linode, unless
otherwise noted.

Commit message:

Update: Documentation and Package Json (#5380)
* updates docs and package json

* adds usage docs for SDK

* updates contributing docs

* updates contributing docs

* updates contributing docs

* updates contributing docs

* updates licence

* fixes typo

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
  <img src="https://www.linode.com/media/images/logos/diagonal/light/linode-logo_diagonal_light_medium.png" width="200" />
  <br />
  Linode UI
</h1>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://travis-ci.org/linode/manager"><img src="https://travis-ci.org/linode/manager.svg?branch=master" alt="Build status" /></a>
  <a href="https://coveralls.io/github/linode/manager?branch=master"><img src="https://coveralls.io/repos/github/linode/manager/badge.svg?branch=master" alt="Code coverage" /></a>
  <a href="https://lerna.js.org/" alt="maintained with lerna"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/maintained%20with-lerna-cc00ff.svg" /></a>
</p>

This repository is the home for all things related to front-end development at Linode.

## Running Projects Within the Repository

To get started running Linode UI projects locally, please [see the _Getting Started_ documentation.](GETTING_STARTED.md)

## Contributing

If you already have your development environment set up, please read the [contributing guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) to get help in making your first PR.

### I want to contribute to Cloud Manager :heart_eyes:

Along with the contributing guidelines, you can read our [code conventions](./CODE_CONVENTIONS.md) and [Cloud Manager testing conventions](./TESTING.md) docs for instructions on how write code inline with what we expect.

### I want to contribute to the JavaScript SDK :sunglasses:

Amazing! Please check out the documentation in the [SDK directory](./packages/linode-js-sdk/README.md)

## Reaching Out

You can submit feedback in two ways

1. Submit feedback to feedback@linode.com
2. Create a GitHub Issue

Both are monitored by the developers and product owners and we make a point to respond and take
action upon feedback.

## License

All code located in this repository is distributed under the terms of the [APLv2
license](LICENSE).
