# Deploying

We are following a CI/CD (continuous integration / continuous deployment) process for Cloud Manager. This means:
1. `develop` branch gets automatically deployed to our development environment
2. `testing` branch gets automatically deployed to our testing environment
3. `staging` branch gets automatically deployed to our staging environment
4. `master` branch gets automatically deployed to our production environment, AKA https://cloud.linode.com

This means we can deploy features quickly and efficiently.

When a new version of Cloud Manager is released, it must be accompanied by an update to [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/linode/manager/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md). See [Keepachangelog](http://keepachangelog.com/en/0.3.0/) for formatting details

## What to Do When Releasing

NOTE: These instructions assume your upstream is called `origin`

These instructions assume you have your local branches configured so that the upstream is set to their
remote counterpart. If you haven't done so already, run the following commands.

* `git checkout origin/testing && git checkout -b testing && git branch --set-upstream-to origin/testing`
* `git checkout origin/staging && git checkout -b staging && git branch --set-upstream-to origin/staging`
* `git checkout origin/master && git checkout -b master && git branch --set-upstream-to origin/master`

When you plan on releasing a new version of Cloud Manager:

1. Pull down the latest `testing` and `develop` branches locally
    * `git checkout develop && git pull && git checkout testing && git pull`
2. Merge develop into testing with `git checkout testing && git merge develop`
    * This should result in 0 merge conflicts
3. While `testing` branch is checked out, [generate the Changelog](#generating-the-changelog) first
4. Review the Changelog and update manually if necessary
    * This includes getting rid of any references to PR numbers, JIRA ticket numbers or grammar and spelling mistakes
    * You should also ensure that everything in the Chaneglog is user-facing. Removing anything that users won't directly be interacting with
5. Push the changes from your local `testing` branch to the upstream with `git push origin testing`
6. At this point, you can begin deploying to the rest of the environments
7. Deploy to the staging environment by merging `testing` into `staging` with `git checkout staging && git pull && git merge testing && git push origin staging`
8. At this point, run the end-to-end test suite. Please see a team member on instructions how to do so.
9. When you're ready to make the merge to master AKA release to production, you need to do 2 things: Add the git tag, and ensure the changelog has the correct date. 
10. Make the date change to CHANGELOG.md if necessary and stage the changes with `git add . && git commit -m "updates changelog date"`.
11. Then, run `git checkout staging && git add . && yarn version --new-version X.X.X` (replace the X's with the appropriate version number)
    * This will apply the Git tags and update the version number in the `package.json`
    * This will also automatically commit the changes with the commit message `vX.X.X`
12. Push changes to staging with `git push origin staging && git push origin --tags`
13. IMPORTANT: Wait for the new changes to deploy to staging before merging to master.
14. Deploy to the production environment by merging `staging` into `master` with `git checkout master && git pull && git merge staging && git push origin master` 
15. Once your new version has being deployed to production, open a PR to merge `master` branch into `develop` branch - **DO NOT SQUASH MERGE**
    * Seriously...**DO NOT SQUASH MERGE**
16. Finally, on GitHub, create a new release from the Git tag you've just pushed to `master` branch

## Pushing a Hotfix

In the case where the release process has been initated and you need to push a hotfix - in other words, if `develop` has already been merged into `testing`, is slated for release, and there is some bug fix, styling change, or E2E test that needs to be resovled:

1. Make a branch from `testing` branch
2. Make your changes
3. Create a PR against `testing` branch
4. Merge on approval

Then when merging the newly updated `testing` into staging, you'll need to check
whether `staging` has a git tag commit. If it does

1. Run `git checkout staging && git pull && git checkout testing && git rebase -i staging`
2. Then proceed to merge testing into staging

Finally, start again at step 11 of the above instructions

At the end of the release process, `master` branch will be merged back into `develop`, so don't fear that you also need to apply your changes to `develop`.

## Generating the changelog
Get a Python 3 installation with `pip`. On a Mac:

`brew install python` (Python 3 is now the default)

The Changelog is generated by the script `generate_changelog.py`. This script should ideally only be run on the `testing` branch

The script accepts 3 parameters:
1. `${release version}`
    * `vX.X.X` for example
2. `${release-date yyyy.MM.dd}`
    * `2019-09-17` for example
3. `${mangerRemote}`
    * `origin` for example

So altogether, the command should look like:

```
python generate_changelog.py v0.52.0 2019-09-17 origin
```

This script does a git log diff of manager/master...HEAD, printing only the commit subject. Strip any reference to a JIRA ticket, and disregards any testing or automation ticket, and updates the CHANGELOG.md Added, Breaking, Fixed, Change based on keywords in the commit subject.